# HOHQMesh Examples

There are sixteen two-dimensional and ten three-dimensional examples included in the repository
both for the user to run and to visualize models and meshes that use the features of HOHQMesh,
and for developers to note visualize changes as algorithms are added or changed.

The mesh files and plot files generated by HOHQMesh can get large.
For this reason, we have reduced the storage requirements in the following ways:

1. Plot files for example meshes that have a counterpart in the Benchmark suite are located
   in the Benchmarks directory. That is, the plot files for the following examples are
   found in `HOHQMesh/Benchmarks/PlotFiles/Benchmarks`
   ```
   AllFeatures
   BoneAndMarrow
   BottomFromFile
   Box3D
   Box3DRotated
   Circles3
   GingerbreadMan
   HalfCircleArc
   HalfCircleExtruded
   HalfCircleRotated
   NACA0012
   Pill
   Pond3D
   SplineGeometry
   ```
   Those that do not have a counterpart have plot file examples in this directory.

2. Plot files are saved using only the "skeleton" option. For more detailed plots with the internal
   spectral element information, users should replace the "skeleton" plot file option with
   the "sem" option and generate the meshes locally. Two plot files with the "sem" output option are
   provided in the Benchmark suite, specifically the two-dimensional `BoneAndMarrow` example
   and three-dimensional `Box3D` example.

   Note, due to file size, no "skeleton" plot file is provided for `Examples/3D/MtStHelens`. A user would need to generate the files for this large mesh locally.

3. Example and Benchmark mesh files are **not** included in the repository.
   Again, users should generate them locally as desired.
